# N64 Modern Runtime

A modern runtime for traditional ports and recompilations of N64 games. \
The runtime is consists of two libraries: [ultramodern](#ultramodern) and [librecomp](#librecomp).

## ultramodern

ultramodern is a reimplementation of much of the core functionality of libultra. It can be used with either statically recompiled projects that use N64Recomp or direct source ports. It implements the following libultra functionality:

* Threads
* Controllers
* Audio
* Message Queues
* Timers
* RSP Task Handling
* VI timing

Platform-specific I/O is handled via callbacks that are provided by the project using ultramodern. This includes reading from controllers and playing back audio samples.

ultramodern expects the user to provide and register a graphics renderer. The recommended one is [RT64](https://github.com/rt64/rt64).

## librecomp

librecomp is a library meant to be used to bridge the gap between code generated by N64Recomp and ultramodern. It provides wrappers to allow recompiled code to call ultramodern. Librecomp also provides some of the remaining libultra functionality that ultramodern doesn't provide, which includes:

* Overlay handling
* PI DMA (ROM reads)
* EEPROM, SRAM and Flashram saving (these may be partially moved to ultramodern in the future)

## Building

The recommended usage of these libraries is to include them in your project's CMakeLists.txt file via add_subdirectory. This project requires C++20 support and was developed using Clang 15, older versions of clang may not work. Recent enough versions of MSVC and GCC should work as well, but are not regularly tested.

These libraries can be built in a standalone environment (ie, developing new features for the libraries of this project) via the following:

```bash
cmake -B build -G Ninja -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER=clang++ -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=clang -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cmake --build build
```
